README
This document provides information about the Node.js and React.js application with a MySQL backend.

Table of Contents:

About the Project
Setup Instructions
API Documentation
Routes
Request Body and Response Format
Authentication
Development Report
Key Design Decisions
Challenges Faced
Lessons Learned
Conclusion
About the Project
This application is a full-stack web application built with Node.js for the backend and React.js for the frontend. It uses a MySQL database for data persistence.

Setup Instructions
Prerequisites:

Nodejs (version 14 or later)
npm (Node Package Manager)
MySQL Server
A text editor or IDE (Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, etc.)
Installation:

Clone the project repository.
Open a terminal in the project directory.
Install the project dependencies:
npm install
Create a .env file in the project root directory and add the following environment variables:
APP_PORT=<port number>
DB_HOST=<database host>
DB_USER=<database user>
DB_PASSWORD=<database password>
DB_NAME=<database name>
CORS_URL=<allowed origin for CORS>
Replace <port number> with the desired port number for the application (default is 5000).
Replace <database host>, <database user>, <database password>, and <database name> with your MySQL database credentials.
Replace <allowed origin for CORS> with the origin you want to allow access to the API (e.g., "http://localhost:3000").
Run the application:
npm start
Database Setup:

Create a database with the name specified in the .env file.
(Optional) Import any necessary SQL scripts to create tables and populate them with initial data.
API Documentation
Routes
The application provides several API endpoints for various functionalities.

Route	Description	Methods
/	User routes (e.g., get all users)	GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
/auth	User authentication routes	POST
/admin	Admin authentication routes	POST
/admin/movie	Manage movies (CRUD operations)	GET, POST, PUT, DELETE
Note: This is just a basic overview of the routes. For detailed information about each route's functionality and parameters, refer to the comments within the code.

Request Body and Response Format
All requests and responses will be in JSON format. The specific structure of the request body and response will depend on the specific API endpoint.

Authentication
Some routes require authentication. The authentication mechanism is based on JSON Web Tokens (JWT). To access protected routes, you need to include a valid JWT token in the Authorization header of your request. For details on how to obtain and use JWT tokens, refer to the relevant sections of the code.

Development Report
This section provides a brief overview of the key design decisions made during development, the challenges faced, and the lessons learned.

Key Design Decisions
Modular Architecture: The application is divided into separate modules for different functionalities, such as user management, authentication, and movie management. This makes the code more maintainable and easier to test.
Express.js framework: This framework is used to build a RESTful API for the application. It provides features such as routing, middleware, and error handling, simplifying API development.
MySQL Database: This database is used for data persistence due to its popularity and scalability.
Challenges Faced
Database connection and error handling: Setting up the database connection and handling potential errors required careful implementation and testing.
Security and authentication: Implementing secure user authentication and authorization was a major challenge, involving best practices for JWT-based authentication.
Testing: Writing comprehensive unit and integration tests for all API endpoints and functionalities was crucial and time-consuming.
Lessons Learned
Planning and documentation: Thorough planning and documentation helped avoid roadblocks and ensure well-organized, easily understood code.
Testing and debugging: Comprehensive testing and effective debugging techniques were essential for identifying and fixing bugs early in development.
Security considerations: Careful attention to security throughout development is crucial, including user authentication, data encryption, and vulnerability management.
Conclusion
This application demonstrates the development of a full-stack web application with Node.js, React.js, and MySQL. 